Kunj Shah
CS190i - Internship Term Paper
A10 Networks - Deep Learning Intern, AI Firewall Team


GETTING THE JOB

I didn't have to take a gamble here, I earned this internship through the traditional STEM career fair. I spoke to a few folks at the A10 Networks booth and four of them were in the same group as I would eventually be a part of. It wasn't a pitch or a formality, it was as if I was meeting my future coworkers even before I had a job. Talked about what I built, what I'm interested in, and what the team was doing in regards to AI. It was that casual conversation that got me on their radar and that's a significant reason why I would encourage any student to not see career fairs as a box to check. Those you chat with at a booth may be the ones promoting you within.

There were five rounds to the interview process and it ramped up quickly. The first round was a deep dive into my work and background and was technical but conversational. In the second round, it was all serious business – a coding interview that quickly turned into a discussion of the basics of the AI field, including on-the-fly implementation of an attention mechanism. The third round, the next day, was by far the toughest technical interview I've ever had. Then, the fourth round, also on the same day, was called a 30 minute behavioral interview with the Senior Director of Software Engineering, Ronald, and it lasted longer, close to 45 minutes, since the conversation didn't end. The last round HR – was behavioral.

If a friend asked me how to prepare for an interview like this I would tell them 2 things. One of the most important things to be aware of is your own projects and their requirements. You will not only be asked to explain what you created, but also defend the decisions that went into the design. Second, don't consider the “advanced” technical round to be the final consequence of an earlier impressive performance. The most difficult interview came after I believed that I had been through the roughest of them all. Be prepared to get deep into the basics behind the tools (attention mechanisms, basics of training models, the math behind the libraries) rather than simply the tools themselves.

COMPANY BACKGROUND

A10 Networks is a public company, with approximately 750 employees and a market cap of approximately $2.7 billion. A networking and security company established in 2004, known for its application delivery controllers, DDoS security and secure network infrastructure solutions. That's a history thing, as the team that the writer is on is as polar opposite as anything can be.

This is a new team, I'm in the AI Firewall team as Deep Learning Intern. The company has 20 years of networking and security expertise, but the AI organization is still growing and developing and is not as boxed-in as you'd expect from a company of this size, and has a lot more freedom and flexibility. I'm working on multimodal guardrails, which is creating and training models for detecting and preventing harmful, malicious, or policy violations that span across multiple modalities (text and beyond) before content reaches or leaves a system. In practice, that involves a lot of time spent on data pipelines, training runs on H100s, testing the behaviour of the models on hostile data, and spinning our architecture and training strategy based on the evaluations we get.

It's not a one man project. My project buddy and I are in adjoining cubbies and we do pretty much the whole day as a team, and it's accelerated my workflow a lot more than I had thought. I also have a mentor and a manager, and have weekly 1 on 1 sessions with another teammate who does a technical research paper review weekly on papers related to the project.

I don't think I learned any of the specific skills I use on a day-to-day basis in an SJSU class. I have learned the basics of deep learning, tooling, and research methodology outside of class, and am using them on the job. Not knocking on SJSU, but it's just an observation: The pace of AI research is more rapid than a semester long course can keep up, and in this field, learning-by-doing is a job requirement, not a choice. If I had a course I would recommend to SJSU, it would be something that was not so much of a fixed course, but more of a research seminar, teaching a student how to read, and reproduce the results of current papers, as that is what this job requires.

Here the most important skills are a combination of hard and soft skills. The hard part is that you can actually read a paper and reimplement the cited piece, and you don't need to be convinced of the training/evaluation loop, but you have to actually be disciplined about the verification part, because a paper model that looks pretty good is not necessarily going to work out in the real world. On the soft side: Clear communication of results in the weekly sync and a project buddy you can count on all day long.

WORK ENVIRONMENT

The internship will be 100% in-person. A normal day is spent getting settled close to my project buddy, as our cubicles are directly beside one another and we spend much of our day working side-by-side. Beyond that, it's a very light load since I sync with my manager once a week (who is from a different field), my mentor and project buddy once a week, and with myself just once a week on research papers.

The management style seems more akin to a start-up than a 20-year-old company, as the team of AI is relatively new within it. I don't have anybody telling me what to do and how. My mentor and project buddy are really doing what they can to get the work done, not just ticking boxes, and my manager allows me to do what I want to do, rather than being constantly on my shoulder telling me what to do. I'm not one who writes status reports often, weekly is sufficient, but they do occur if we both need to update since my buddy and I are sitting next to each other most of the day.

It's slow, at least no one is forcing me to set deadlines that are unreasonable. “If anything I think that's where I'm putting my own pressure in this case.” I work 40 hours a week, but I'm generally working closer to 50 as I don't enjoy leaving a project unfinished and want to make sure this doesn't happen properly. When there are deadlines, they feel attainable, and my support network is encouraging, not a threat.

My own most-open challenge was not technical, managerial, it was social. The other interns are much more "extremely online" in their culture, I'm the youngest person in the building, but I'm still the one that doesn't really gel with them. They go out for dinner, hit the bars, wander the mall together--I'm not usually part of these plans. It stings sometimes. But I've also learned to take it in and out of my feelings towards the actual internship, because the work, the mentorship and the atmosphere of the team that I'm working with, on the Ai Firewall side, have been really fantastic. It serves as a reminder that "fit" does not mean "one-dimensional" or "the same team" or "the same interns" or "the same team and interns.

The second real challenge is not the individual but the structural one: some of the data and parts this project should have received from other companies and startups are not fully available yet. This isn't on A10, it's just what it is to be reliant on external partners and sometimes having less data to train with than we would like. That said, the performance of the current model has been impressive, and that's a testament to how well the team can work within the limits of what is possible rather than wait for ideal conditions to come to them.

With respect to the use of AI, A10 is “permissive.” The company has enterprise access to things like Codex, and I'm in a position where since a lot of what I do is one-off research tooling, I'm at liberty to use whatever tools make sense for whatever task, but most of the code I write isn't for production with long-term maintenance concerns. In reality I've been using Claude Code on a daily basis for research tasks, using Codex, and Antigravity IDE quite often for research tasks as well. AI is not a siloed initiative for me but a cohesive part of my workflow.

I would have to think about the task I have to complete in the three categories of class: writing code, which is almost fully AI-assisted now, I direct it, but the actual code generation that I have to write is now something AI can do very well, in collaboration with clear intent from me. Analysis is a true collaboration; I wouldn't give it all to AI, it can identify patterns or collate results rapidly, but understanding the result for the model and the project is a human and AI collaboration. The decision on what is actually true is all mine; verifying that AI-assisted analysis is reliable is solely my responsibility; and it's up to me to be accountable for what ends up in a research write-up or a model decision. I don't know that one is going away. Regardless of the perfection of the tooling, someone has to be the one to review the work and be there to support it and this is a skill I am most purposefully developing during this internship.

OVERALL

It's really a great internship and I'm enjoying it. The work is interesting and that my actual team are supportive and invested in the work and I'm not just doing “work” but real research. As a career, this is a pretty good match with where I want to go; as a hands-on deep learning experience, it's on real infrastructure, with real constraints. I feel that I'm growing, not stifled; I feel I've got some freedom, a lot of it.

I highly recommend A10 Networks to my good friend in terms of the work itself, the mentorship, and the environment in the AI division. I would be more cautious in recommending the intern experience in general because the social dynamics of the group of interns have not been a natural fit for me personally and I would want to know that going in, not on day one.

My best and most practical "take away" from this internship is that there is no "workaround" for a "real" education, in an area that's advancing this rapidly, there simply isn't any. In fact, the majority of what I use on a daily basis is not from a classroom and that's not something I'm worried about anymore, it's just what it is to work in AI these days. I'm also very close to the second lesson, which is that as AI gets into more of the actual writing and generating, what I bring is the judgment, the verification, being their sign-off that matters. That's the one thing in this loop that is not easily automated, and that's what I will invest in for the long term.